Dear Language,

We've known each other for many years now, grew up alongside each other and shared many happy memories. It hasn't been until the last few years though that I've really come to understand you — and by an extension myself — on a much deeper level. The more time I spend with you, the more I get to appreciate your intricacies and curiosities, your magnificent features and characteristics. With every day I get to spend with you I discover new and fascinating aspects of yourself.

Even beyond my own fascination with you, you seem to have a knack for bringing people together and for that I am thankful beyond compare. You have showed me a world so wonderful and amazing, connected me with so many people, groups, cultures, ideas, and concepts that now I can't even imagine what it would be like without you. It seems impossible for me to live a single moment without you and I really hope to be able to keep being close to you until my life, too, comes to an end some day.

Oh Language, you make my head spin. With so many amazing qualities, I am left aghast when I see how so many people don't value your importance or don't even take notice of you. It is a proper shame, that. Though as you know, I do not like to meddle in other's affairs or tell them what to do; while I hope dearly that more people will understand and appreciate your qualities, I do not think I can help you in that regard, no matter how much of a shame it is. Maybe instead I can make up for this by comitting myself to you even more than ever before.

I doubt that my life is going to be long enough to learn about every facet of your being, but I swear to try to the best of my abilities. I sincerely wish that this will satisfy you and that you may accept my humble confession of affection to you. There is no doubt in my mind that I can promise my full devotion to you for all my life, even if that may seem ridiculous under normal circumstances. However, I realize that our relationship is not an ordinary one. Us being so closely tied together reassures me that even if for some unknown and unimaginable reason I would want to leave you, I could not.


With all my love,

Shinmera
