imgbox(right){http://shinmera.tymoon.eu/public/transcend%20intro.JPG}It has been quite a while since I've last spoken of this project. It has been even longer since I last really worked on it. I'm now at the point where I've realized that I need to simply get it off my mind and call it done. Done, not in the way of finished, but in the way of closed off. This will just be me explaining why I closed it and what I thought of the project, as it was one of the largest feats I ever attempted.

Unfortunately, this project didn't get closed simply because I lost interest in it. There are a huge number of problems from a technical perspective that were just constant game breakers for me and really put quite a damper on all I wanted to achieve with it. Since the day I started this, I've learned a lot more, have a better idea of programming design, a better judgement of how things should be done and in general just have a better experience in a lot of topics that are required for one to build a stable, useful game engine.

While there are a lot of hours and effort in the Transcend engine, I simply cannot find it to be salvageable for other projects. It's too complicated, complex and broken to be worth repairing. The only part of it that I will save is the CAPE sub-project. I'll try to cut it away from the rest of the engine and later develop it further into an actual rigid body physics engine. But for now, I need to get other things done.

imgbox(left){http://shinmera.tymoon.eu/public/transcend%20editor.png}As I look back on the engine and what I've learned of it, I have to say that I discover a lot of places where I just tried to be too good. I implemented a lot of features and hoops that needlessly shot up the complexity level of the whole thing, without actually being of much use. If I had calculated my requirements better, planned the whole thing out on paper before just shooting for it with code, I probably could have even reached my goal of having a playable tech demo. But I really just wasn't advanced enough as a programmer and designer to reach this feat.

If I know myself well enough, I can say with fairly large certainty that I will create a new and much better game engine in around a year. There's still a lot for me to learn, but I think I'm now a huge chunk better at planning things out and designing a stable framework that I'll be able to make an engine that does not require another scratch rewrite. Sure, it'll have problems, but I doubt that they'll amount to being too big and deep to not be worth the fixing time.

Another aspect that I've only realized yesterday makes this project a sealed deal. This reason isn't a technical one. What I concluded was that the game that I initially constructed this engine for is not something I really want to complete. The only thing I really loved about it was the puzzle mechanic and its faint reminiscence of Okami. There was nothing really personal or interesting I wanted to tell or express with the game. If it had ever come to a stable thing, it would've been a tech demo of a game mechanic, but certainly never a full game. It just never had the background and charm of a real game. Even as I look at the sprite sheets and all that I've done with it, I just don't see any appealing aspect to it.

I was just too much of a programmer and too little of a player and writer as I worked. I feel like this is still something that is expressed in a lot of the work I do. I'm very straightforward and can't really build a world far enough to be immersive and inherently interesting (I'm looking at you, re-boot). This also reflected in the lack of actual artwork and ideas I built up in the project. I made sprites because, well, I had to, right? But what was the character supposed to be? What's the background of it? What is the world we play in? All these questions I only answered in a very bland manner, without thinking about the complications about the answers, how they connect to the actual game story, what the world would be without the game, etc.

Sometime I need to start a venture not based on something that interests me, but something that intrigues me on a personal level. When that time will be, I don't know. We'll see.

Goodbye, Transcend.