=== ETHZ - Week Two ===

This week proved to be a bit more interesting and less interesting at the same time. Less interesting in terms of lectures, unfortunately. More interesting concerning other bits though. There isn't all too much I can say in total, but it'll still be better than nothing.

The lectures this week have been quite a bit of a bore. Not really surprising, since it's still coming along slowly and a lot of the stuff is repetition from high school. I just hope I won't lose my will and somehow miss the connection once they get up to speed. Otherwise I've also had the worst lecture ever, an "introduction" to Matlab. It's hard to form into words how bad it was, but let's just say I wouldn't be surprised if more than 70% of the people walked out of there with even less of a clue of how to do anything in Matlab. Welp.

Otherwise I somehow got together with three other guys that all also study CSE and we've been eating lunch together, talking a bit and exchanging our solutions for exercises. The way this happened was that I was sitting next to one of them and opened up the Space Station 13 thread on SA and he recognised the game. I didn't believe this was statistically possible, but here you go. So I got into a bit of a discussion with him and he introduced me to the other two, who seem like a'ight peeps so far as well. One of them even knows a lot about programming, hooray! Hopefully this will turn out to be a nice friendship, or perhaps just a companionship throughout the studies, which would be fine by me as well. Otherwise I've also been talking to a guy who studies Electric Engineering a bit whom I share a few lectures with.

I've also met quite a few of my old classmates throughout the last two weeks, which was a nice surprise. I did hear though that quite a few of those who started last year had to repeat, which is quite a shame. Still, all the best luck to them! I'll also be meeting up with one of them for lunch on Monday or Tuesday, which should be fun. Then there's also a get-together for the CSE students of all years on Monday in the afternoon after the lectures. Will see what happens there.

Exercise wise it has been going pretty well. I've so far done all the exercises I wanted to do well in time and to a satisfactory degree of correctness as well. Not to mention that I've written it all in LaTeX, which I pat myself on the back for. What I did fail at was not returning to projects, as I did work on the ED bot (Colleen) quite a few times over the week. I don't regret it though, as otherwise I would've just further descended into the madness that is boredom. Luckily I've also gotten over the art block and started drawing again, with some pretty nifty results I might add.

All in all this has been a pretty darn gosh cool week!
