=== ETHZ - Week One ===

It's been a week since I've enrolled at university. To be honest, I can't really say all too much about it yet as I simply haven't been able to make up an honest opinion so far. I'm sure as the time goes on something will crystallise within me, but for now I simply have a few loose impressions that I'm not sure what to think of.

Generally though it's been going fine. I haven't really had any exercises yet this week, so it hasn't been hard on me yet. I'm sure this will change from next week on. Hopefully I'll be able to keep up with everything and convince myself to employ a "sooner rather than later" strategy when it comes to such tasks. I've had to do some exercises already, but not really anything major yet, or even anything I'd consider "standard" considering what I imagine has yet to come. 

The professors I have seem fine so far. Only one of them is actively funny during the lectures, but I suppose that's still better than nothing and hopefully the rest will get better as time goes on. I've only personally talked to the IT professor so far and asked him if he knew Lisp. He did not. Not really surprising, but disappointing anyway. The actual things they've been handling in the lectures so far haven't been hard at all and it was all mostly repetition of things we learned previously. Still, I'm glad that I'm not completely lost already and I don't mind going through these things once more from a common ground up.

Although I have already noticed that some people have trouble keeping up even now, which would make me pretty damn worried if I was them. I also have spotted a couple of people in the individual lectures that already don't seem to be paying any attention... I'm merely asking myself why they're even there if all they're going to do is sleep through it or just browse the internet all the time. 

I haven't made any friends yet and I'm very slow on getting to know people at all, mostly because it's not really a priority for me anyway. And, well, finding someone out of the hundreds of people roaming around the place isn't exactly an easy task. I've had a strange encounter on Friday where someone randomly asked me if we could go eat lunch together. I agreed, but we couldn't settle on where to eat, so we parted ways again after chatting for a few minutes. Needless to say I didn't expect to have that happen to me, haha.

Now, I'm not quite sure how I'm going to do this and a lot of the questions I've had about how to handle university in general are still up in the air. I suppose I'll just write an update here when I feel like it for now.
