Ok so... it's long overdue for a short review of things. As I've mentioned previously, I write all the Kanji down on cards and learn them the "old fashioned way". It's quite handy for me to be able to simply take out the cards anywhere (I keep them in my wallet) and just practice them for a bit. There are, however, a couple of things that I learned about writing these cards and learning them during the time that I've done this now.
img{http://www.tymoon.eu/data/uploads/filer/46-IMG_20121212_100137.jpg}

The cards simply have the Kanji on one side (including alternate forms, if any) and the rest of the information of the other side: English name / Translation, order number, Onyomi, Mnemonic, Kunyomi.
img{http://www.tymoon.eu/data/uploads/filer/47-IMG_20121212_100043.jpg}
If I can't find a good enough mnemonic, I simply write down the translations of the components. This has proven to be a very important thing for me. I used to simply not write anything down at all for the mnemonic when I didn't have anything in mind, which was a huge hassle, because these cards usually were also the hardest for me to remember. Most of the time, the reason as to why they are hard is that I can't even properly remember their compounds, which pretty much reduces my chances of guessing to 0. So yeah, even if there's no mnemonic, having the radicals noted down on the card as well can be a huge help and even helps you revise some of the older Kanji. Another thing that improved my learning ability a lot was to really pay attention when writing them down. Usually when I simply copy text, it leaves my mind a couple of seconds later already, so that's another wasted opportunity.

I haven't really stood true to my plans though, as I am terrible at keeping schedules and all and I haven't done the weekly or monthly reviews as I thought I would. As such I now already have a huge stack of cards that I haven't really repeated since the first time. I'll probably have to take a timeout for a week sometime and just repeat all the ones I've already written down so far, without adding any new ones. After all, there's no point to this if I simply forget all of them again.