Sometimes I come to the question: "Why do we communicate"? This question is mostly preceded by a thought of how annoying communication is; so full of imprecision, ambiguity and failure of expression. Yes indeed, why do we bother communicating, if it is always such a huge pain? Well, granted, communicating may often not seem like a pain, but this is mostly to blame on the fact that the large majority of what we communicate has little to no importance, so it doesn't matter if it isn't portrayed correctly. When we get the feeling that it does matter, such as in times of argument or heated debate, we quickly begin to misunderstand. The reason why we misunderstand is twofold. One is the simple fact that everyone is different, and as such people think in a different way. This is something we cannot fathom. We cannot even begin to imagine how someone else thinks, as it is such a natural and intrinsic thing that any attempt at simulating it to be another way fails spectacularly. Different ways of thinking means that we have a mismatch in calculation, in how we predict things to be and how we logically evaluate and prioritise things. The second reason why misunderstandings occur is to blame on the medium. Language is our main medium of expression, but it simply is not powerful or elegant enough to grasp the complicated structures and thought-patterns we keep in our minds in an efficient manner.

These two problems lead to huge problems when it matters. First and foremost we have a tool at our hands that isn't precise enough to do the job and second of all we need to get both parties to look in the same direction, act the same way. Since the latter is most of the time not given, we need to use the former first to try to get to a common point of view. This is by itself a feat of miracles and only ever extends to a "Good Enough" territory in actual situations. Most of the time communication already fails at that point and it all falls down into the pit of spitting and even lesser forms of communication, such as grunts and animalish screams. Either way, if a somewhat common platform of discussion has been established, only then the actual core task can be battled and the information at hand can be exchanged. And again, this is limited by our tool, which means it also won't transfer smoothly. 

imgbox(right){http://ndep.nv.gov/photo/tahoe_sunset07.jpg}
So all in all, our chance at getting meaningful information across properly is very low. But this isn't even all, as I've glossed over a lot of problems that our human nature brings with itself. Probably the most serious offence in terms of communication is that often times we don't even listen, because we don't want to. The reason for doing this can range from 'not caring' to 'not wanting to accept a view closer to The Truth'; what I mean by The Truth will be covered in another entry, for now it is sufficient if you deem it as the absolute truth. As you might imagine by now, not listening will reduce our communication rate even more drastically, often resulting in a complete drain of the information pipe. As such, watch out for people who refuse to listen, as you'll simply waste your precious time on them.

It all gets even more problematic when the reason for communication isn't the communication at hand, but rather some other intent. This is sadly the default, but it distorts everything a lot more, as the communication isn't pure. It isn't simply about exchanging the needed information, but about trying to manipulate people into doing something by means of the information. This invites a lot of room for false information, intentional mistreatment and absolute disregard for logic and common sense. Why the information at hand is impurified is quite simple. It is possible to make it much more effective in the task of getting someone else to do what you want, rather than educating them on a certain topic. This is also why it doesn't matter for the one starting the communication that the informations he transmits are not a representation of the closest truth. His goal is the manipulation, not the transmission.

To give a brief example: I am writing this mostly because I want to communicate. As such I'm trying to keep the information in here as close to my truth as possible, although I cannot guarantee that it is. Aside from my main intent, there is however a second one. This second intent doesn't so much change the information at hand, but rather the structure and the amount of information I am conveying on this topic. As you might have noticed, this article is written in a peculiar, flowing way, as it transcends from one issue to the next without clear indication or separation. This is done on purpose to achieve a secondary effect. As such, this is not a pure information exchange either, as you cannot grasp The Whole from it and it is not structured in a way that brings all the information plainly to the table. It would require additional effort on your behalf for this. I apologize. I know that this format probably isn't easy to read, but that's how it's intended to be.

imgbox(left){http://www.tareendermatology.com/wp-content/uploads/winter-skin-care-tips-minnesota-dermatology.jpg}
There's more and more focus on making information easily, readily and publicly accessible in today's world. I appreciate this idea and it is certainly a good one in many aspects. However, as all things, use as advised and use the idea within limits. Making the information easily accessible is good for most, as processing information is hard and eliminating as much of this barrier as possible means that more people can be reached. The same goes for making the information readily and publicly accessible. It's all in the name of the masses; of the many. Educating the many is a lofty goal and one that should be persuaded. However, the part that conflicts with a number of topics is the 'easily'. Often enough, a topic simply is not easy. It has a lot of complexity and depth to it. As such it is difficult to get into it and it is difficult to educate people on it. It is nevertheless attempted to simplify this and break it down to make it easy to digest. I call this a form of abstraction.

Abstraction is a very useful tool and a very powerful one to get things done quick. It has one major flaw though, which is that all abstractions are inherently leaky. All abstractions contain flaws at some point or another. Making people believe that they don't leak is very dangerous. It is the main source of misinformation and misdirection. As seen previously, this doesn't come to light until the discussion reaches a deep enough level to unravel these roughnesses that were smoothed over by the abstraction. The only way to discover these abstraction leaks for oneself ties in to the ideas of the renaissance; to doubt and test everything. One way to strengthen this method is to take as many inputs as possible, while at the same time doubting and testing them all. Diversity and critique are the only sure fire ways to finding out more.

To show to you that abstraction is everywhere, let's take an example: Headlines and Titles. They are a form of summary, which is an abstraction. Titles try to encompass the main or leading point of a larger subject in a short manner. They glance over all the important details though, which is why purely reading the title alone can be misleading. Often times the titles are even intentionally misleading, especially in the journalism and blogging business. When they are used for manipulative purposes, they immediately lose a lot more of their informational value, as has been discussed previously. On the other hand titles are also very useful, as they tell you quickly whether you simply don't care about a topic and thus can save some time or if it's actually worth for you to read ahead.

The topics covered in here are always meant to go into a sufficient level of detail. As such it would be a waste to put a title on them, as it would either shy away a potential reader or give a false idea about what lies ahead. Having a title might away the readers because they might actually discover that they do care about the topic at hand, while they would've skipped over it completely if they had found a title they do not care about. I am perfectly aware that not having a title is in the same way putting off others that simply don't want to put in the effort of reading through it all to discover whether they have some thoughts to contribute or not. This isn't an issue though, as I am not targeting those people. This isn't a series for the many, it's a series for the few and I will try my best to make it as brilliant as possible for those few who choose to dedicate their valuable time to this cause.

Thank you for reading.

img{http://shinmera.tymoon.eu/public/tumblr_mk8s6mLOYy1qhttpto2_1280.jpg}